# imagineRio Narratives: A Map-based Storytelling Platform for Rio de Janeiro

imagineRio Narratives is a map-based storytelling application custom designed for imagineRio, a spatial history platform about the city of Rio de Janeiro. Integrated with an online Historical Geographic Information System (HGIS) built for shared research and scholarship, Rio Narratives offers an elegant environment for writing digital publications related to the urban history of Rio. Leveraging the microservices architecture of imagineRio, the application encourages its users to engage with transmedia storytelling through a simplified interface that does not require GIS expertise or knowledge of the intricacies of spatial data acquisition. This open-source project gives all users access to imagineRio’s temporally accurate basemap, as well as to its curated primary sources--georeferenced historical maps and urban plans. In this article, the narrative layer discusses how the idea for Rio Narratives developed from our past experiences with ESRI StoryMaps. It also discusses how the Covid-19 pandemic (severe in both the US and Brazil) shaped our development process, as we recognized the urgent need to engage meaningfully with a community of early adopters based in Rio. The hermeneutics layer discusses the conception and development choices around the narratives editor, which enables users to write in connection with our digital atlas. In this section we introduce how users can organize their content on cards associated with specific locations and points in time. Finally, the data layer presents the source code of Rio Narratives editor. In this layer we look forward to working with JDH’s editors to leverage how to best share a [JavaScript project](https://github.com/imaginerio/narratives) within the journal’s Python-based coding environment.

# Keywords

HGIS, Storytelling, Urban History, Rio de Janeiro
